README.md, before:

# addlicense
This project adds the given license to all source file in a given directory.
The tool will try to avoid source files that already has a header. This
project can be used as a CLI as well as a library imported to a go script.

## Inspiration
The initial inspriation is from this
[repo](https://github.com/google/addlicense) from Google. While the google
addlicense project is good, but there are some additional requirements I
needed.

1. I want the code to be a importable library in addition to just a tool. In
this way, I can import this to write my own customized scripts. 
2. Template is an overkill for most people. Most of the time, I just want to
attach a license to all my files. If I am making changes to the license, such
as updating the year, I will just update a single license file. So I
simplified the codebase.

## Build
```bash
make
```

## Test
```bash
go test -v ./...
```

## Usage
This project can be consumed either as a CLI or as a lib.

### CLI

To install:
```bash
go get -u github.com/yihuaf/addlicense/cmd/addlicense
```
Note: You may need to add you `$GOPATH/bin` to your `$PATH`.

To uninstall:
```bash
go clean -i github.com/yihuaf/addlicense/cmd/addlicense
```

For usage, consult `addlicense -h`.
```txt
Usage:
  addlicense [flags] path...

Flags:
  -h, --help             help for addlicense
      --license string   Path to license file
```

### Lib

Follow the reference [here](https://pkg.go.dev/mod/github.com/yihuaf/addlicense)

## License

MIT license.

Commit message:

Update the readme on how to license file

README.md, after:

# addlicense
This project adds the given license to all source file in a given directory.
The tool will try to avoid source files that already has a header. This
project can be used as a CLI as well as a library imported to a go script.

## Inspiration
The initial inspriation is from this
[repo](https://github.com/google/addlicense) from Google. While the google
addlicense project is good, but there are some additional requirements I
needed.

1. I want the code to be a importable library in addition to just a tool. In
this way, I can import this to write my own customized scripts. 
2. Template is an overkill for most people. Most of the time, I just want to
attach a license to all my files. If I am making changes to the license, such
as updating the year, I will just update a single license file. So I
simplified the codebase.

## Build
```bash
make
```

## Test
```bash
go test -v ./...
```

## Usage
This project can be consumed either as a CLI or as a lib.

### CLI

To install:
```bash
go get -u github.com/yihuaf/addlicense/cmd/addlicense
```
Note: You may need to add you `$GOPATH/bin` to your `$PATH`.

To uninstall:
```bash
go clean -i github.com/yihuaf/addlicense/cmd/addlicense
```

To use, first create a file with the license header you want to add. See
`./LICENSE` as an example of the MIT license.
```bash
addlicense --license <license file> <root of source code>
```

For usage, consult `addlicense -h`.
```txt
Usage:
  addlicense [flags] path...

Flags:
  -h, --help             help for addlicense
      --license string   Path to license file
```

### Lib

Follow the reference [here](https://pkg.go.dev/mod/github.com/yihuaf/addlicense)

## License

MIT license.
